Highs and welcome to this new tutorial.
All right so I hope you got the chance to do the homework.
And congratulations if you not only succeeded it but also tried because you know practice does make
it perfect.
And so now together we're going to implement the solution.
So the problem was that you know before we had to manually update the reward matrix inside the location
where we want to go.
So we remember we wanted to go to location because it's the top priority location and we manually updated
the we were here changing it from 1 to 1000 then the Q learning happened.
Computing the q values inside this matrix of values over 1000 irrigations.
And then finally the root here got the q values and computed the optimal route.
So that was a three step process.
First we manually updated the reward.
Second the learning process happened.
And third the root function returned the optimal route from the starting location to the end location.
And we want to improve that.
We want to improve that process so that we don't even have to manually change do we want here.
We want to leave it always like that so that when we call this function the root function with the starting
location and the ending location well everything happens automatically.
You know the Q learning happens automatically and the curing already integrated information that the
high reward happens in the temporary location.
Therefore the first step of our approach is to make sure that when we call the root function it automatically
changes the high reward.
Inside the ending location so basically the idea is that what we did manually here.
Well now we won't be the ones to do it.
The root function is going to do that itself.
And that's the first step of our approach.
So to that extent.
Well what I'm going to do now what we have to do is create a copy of the matrix of rewards because you
know we always want to leave the matrix of rewards initialized this way we never want to change it so
that's why.
Right now I'm making a copy of it new matrix of rewards and that is in this matrix that will update
the reward in the top priority ending location where we want to go.
So let's do this now we have to make a copy of our original matrix of rewards which will stay this way
and to make a copy of an entire array.
What you have to do is well first get 9:5 course because from month by we're going to use this copy
function which will exactly create a copy of this original our matrix if you thought of you know creating
a copy this way by just setting our new equal to our well that couldn't work because you know we want
to keep our.
As it is that is initialized with only zeros and ones and since afterwards we're going to do some modifications
on our new.
Well if you keep this like that when you do the modifications on our new Well the modifications will
also happen are.
So that's a trap you absolutely need to avoid in order to make a real copy so that the modifications
on the copy don't affect your original array.
Well you have to do it this way with N.P. that copy the array.
All right.
You can make some tests if you want.
And now we have our new matrix of words are new.
So now what is the next step.
Well the next step of course is to now do this modification that is this update of the reward in the
cell corresponding to the top priority location ending location where we want to go.
And therefore Well there is nothing more simple to do that will just take our matrix rewards far into
this copy of the original one.
And now we're going to get the cell inside which we want to A the reward.
That's the cell and the Raje and clingy.
Remember we have two indexes here which are exactly two states and therefore to get the right index
here.
Well we need to take the ending state and the ending state we can get it by mapping the ending location
to the ending state.
Thanks to our dictionary that with me here right because this one location the state maps.
The letters from a L to their corresponding indexes that is their current funding state from 0 to 11
and therefore what we'll do first before dating the reward in our matrix of the word copy.
Well let's first get this ending state.
So I'm going to get it this way am introducing a new variable here which is obviously the index and
then location index state and then location.
And to get it.
Well as we just said we need to get our location to state dictionary inside which we're of course the
ending location because this will map ending location into the ending state.
And now we can update the reward in the cell of location G because indeed we have what we need is ending
state.
And since the cell is in the row of index and state and in the column of index ending state as well.
Well here we go.
Now we managed to catch this.
And so what we have to do is updated from 1 to 1000.
Exactly as we did manually with now the process is automated so that you know when we call the root
function with just the starting location in letter like as we did in the crude oil and the ending location
the temporary location which is location G.
Well you know we'll automatically get the index state corresponding to that ending location by mapping
it with our location is state dictionary and then here.
Since we have now the ending state indexes both in the row and the column.
Well we managed to update our matrix of what copy without changing the original one.
Thanks to what we did here with this copy trick by an umpire.
All right.
Perfect So that's a first step down.
First important step.
But now there is a second very essential step that we have to do of course.
Can you see what it is.
Well it's of course related to the fact that here the Q learning process happens on our not only it
happens on our But also when we exited the code.
It happens before we make that update here.
So even if we you know replace our by our new here that won't work because the update of our new happens
inside this root function so we don't have a choice.
The only thing we can do here is integrate the learning process inside the root function.
All right.
And we'll integrate everything the whole cube learning algorithm including the initialization and the
q values to zeroes.
So what I'm going to do now is just first get rid of the commons here then this one as well.
Right.
And then I'm going to get all this which is the whole cube learning algorithm that I'm going to cut
it and then I'm going to include it just below right here.
That is right after we make the update of the reward in the cell.
The top priority location.
And so I'm going to base that here.
But now be careful the copy paste just broke the alignment.
So I'm going to fix this right away.
Let's see let's stop making a mistake.
This first line here was initialization.
This happens in the main code section of the root function then starts to loop and then that's the first
row of the loop that goes here.
Same for the playable actions that goes here then happens this second for loop inside the first loop.
Then this a condition that goes inside the second for loop and then that's what happens if indeed the
reward is larger than zero.
We append remember the action to the list of possible actions that we can play from the current state.
All right.
And then let's be careful again the next day here belongs to the first for loop.
Before I loop and not the for loop.
So here we are.
Good.
And then same for the temporal difference here.
It happens in the first four.
I loop and then eventually.
Now we just got the tempo difference.
We can update the Q value following the Belman equation and that happens still inside the first four
to four.
I do because that's indeed a date happens at each iteration and over 1000 iterations.
OK.
So we fixed the alignment and now we just have one last thing to change and we already mentioned it.
We already mentioned what it was.
Guess what it is.
It's of course the fact that the q learning even if we put it at the right place while the Q learning
still happens on the previous original version of our in which now we're not supposed to update manually
we want it.
So of course now we have to make the Q learning process happen on our brand new copy of The Matrix if
we want that we just created and therefore the only thing that we have to do left is just replace are
here by aren't you.
And then same here for the temporal difference let's not forget that as well are you.
All right.
And now that's it.
Now we're ready to make the ultimate test whether managed to improve the system by adding some extra
hour of mation.
All right so first of all just so that you get a nice cold well structured.
I'm going to fix that.
The comments here.
So let's see now we basically integrated the curing process that is building the solution inside the
root function that is the tool supposed to go into production.
Let's just say that now going into production will just be you know the final test because indeed the
real AI solution is built here inside this root function and therefore now Poythress is going to be
just a test that is printing the final route from the primary location and then feel free to test any
other routes you know with other temporary locations or other storing locations.
Feel free to play around.
You'll see that this will work very well.
All right.
So let's make some test first.
We're going to save all this because we made quite a lot of changes here.
We're going to then reset everything of course by you know clicking on this tool button here and then
restart the kernel.
And here we go.
Now everything is reset all cleaned to perform some new tests and that's exactly what we're going to
do now.
So I remind that we're checking to see if when starting from location.
While we manage to get to location G by the two possible optimal routes that is this one and this one.
And of course without having to change anything in this original matrix we want let's do this let's
select everything here and then let's press command control his answer to execute.
And here we go we have our first possible optimal path.
I J K L H G E I J K L h d perfect and the matrix of rewards we can just check was not modified.
Let's check it out our.
And indeed we have the original version of The Matrix Awards which means that we can just now compute
any other optimal route from any starting location to any other ending location.
But then let's compute this whole code again to see if we get the other possible optimal route.
So I'm going to ask you here again that's still the first one.
First one still is one still and second one the IJA A B C G E I J.
B C G great.
Amazing then if you want we can do another test.
Let's see for example starting from B.
Well we go to H.
By this route and not for example this route.
Let's check that the path is going to be B C G H.
Just a quick check you know.
And just to test also the purpose of making this copy every word.
Because again we just did our equals are here that wouldn't work.
So let's test if when starting from location B and going to a prior location age we do PCG age check
it out.
We start from B and we're your age and going to select all this and execute B C G H perfect.
All right so it seems that we did it we did our first improvement that is better to with more automation
but now comes the second challenge a bit more tricky.
Well remember when we go from following our previous example when we go from eat to G Well we get two
possible optimal path.
But in fact remember that in our top priority location ranking the location K comes actually a second
top priority.
So it would be nice to optimize even more the warehouse close by you know making sure that when our
ultimate warehouse Robert starts from this location and has to go to location G well on its way it can
also collect the products of location K before going to locations.
So that you know after collecting the practice of location g it doesnt have to go back to location K
before leading to the exit and bringing the Perfect's to whatever next step in the process.
So thats why the next great improvement of our tool would be an interruption or you know make a new
function that offers the option to go by an intermediary location which of course should belong in the
top three priority location.
So thats the challenge again try to make it by yourself practice truly does make perfect.
And of course we'll implement together the solution in the next toile.